Additional reference for 'extensions` devPreview manifest element (#9096)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/resources/schema/manifest-schema-dev-preview.md

## extensions

**Optional**--object

The set of extensions for this app. Used to specify Outlook Extensions (Add-ins) within an app manifest for simplified distribution and acquisition across the Microsoft 365 ecosystem.

> [!NOTE]
> Currently only one extension per app is supported.

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|`requirements`| object | | | Specifies the set of client or host requirements for the extension. |
|`runtimes`| array | | | Configures the sets of runtimes and actions that can be used by each extension point.  |
|`ribbons`| array | | | Defines the ribbons extension point. |
|`autoRunEvents`| array | | | Defines event-based activation extension points. |
|`prefer`| array | | | Specifies relationship to alternate existing Microsoft 365 solutions. Used for de-duping and backwards compatibility. |
|`audienceClaimUrl`| string | 2048 characters | | The URL for your extension. Used to validate Exchange user identity tokens. |

For more information, see [Office Add-ins manifest for Microsoft 365](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/unified-manifest-overview) documentation.

### extensions.requirements

> Specifies the set of client or host requirements for an extension. If a client doesn't support the specified requirements, the extension will not be available in that client. Requirements are supported at the element and sub-element level. In both cases, the service only returns items that match the host.

Reviewer: @erikadoyle request you to let us know the required changes here.

> Specifies the set of client or host requirements for an extension. If a client doesn't support the specified requirements, the extension will not be available in that client. Requirements are supported at the element and sub-element level. In both cases, the service only returns items that match the host.

Author: Being JSON, instead of "element" and "sub-element" we should probably say "object" and "child object".

@Rick-Kirkham, could you help with a better description of "service"? This was taken from Paul's spec ("Outlook Extensions Manifest Element Def"); I don't have further context or expertise.

|`actions.view`| string | 64 characters | | Used only when `actions.type` is `openPage`. A description of the page that opens in the view; for example, "home page".|

### extensions.ribbons

Provides the ability to add buttons and menu items, collectively called "[add-in commands](/office/dev/add-ins/design/add-in-commands)", to the Office application's ribbon. One ribbon definition is selected from the array based on the requirements, based on first-of order. For concrete examples of using `extensions.ribbons`, see [Create add-in commands](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/create-addin-commands-unified-manifest), especially [Configure the UI for the task pane command](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/create-addin-commands-unified-manifest#configure-the-ui-for-the-task-pane-command) and [Configure the UI for the function command](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/create-addin-commands-unified-manifest#configure-the-ui-for-the-function-command).

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|`type`| object | | | |

> |`contexts`| array | 4 | | Specifies the Office application windows in which the ribbon customization is available to the user.|
> |`contexts.type` | string enum | 4 values | | Any of the following supported extension points: `mailRead`, `mailCompose`, `meetingDetailsOrganizer`, `meetingDetailsAttendee`|

Reviewer 2: Just learned this today. "contexts" doesn't really have a subproperty named "type".  This is a mistake in the source document that I'm getting corrected. There should be just one line here:

```suggestion
|`contexts`| array | 4 | | Specifies the Office application windows in which the ribbon customization is available to the user. Each item in the array is a member of a string array. Possible values are: `mailRead`, `mailCompose`, `meetingDetailsOrganizer`, `meetingDetailsAttendee`|
```

|`tabs.groups.controls.icons.file`| string | 2048 characters| | Relative path to the file that contains the icon. This property is currently not supported as a relative path.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.supertip`| object | | ✔️ | |
|`tabs.groups.controls.supertip.title`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ |Title text of the super tip.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.supertip.description`| string | 128 characters | ✔️ | Description of the super tip.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.actionId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Unique identifier for an action defined in runtimes.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.enabled`| boolean | | | Indicates whether the control is initially enabled. Default is `true`.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.overriddenByRibbonApi`| boolean | | | Default is `false`.|
|`tabs.groups.builtinGroupId`| string | 64 characters | | ID of a built-in Group.|

### extensions.autoRunEvents

Defines event-based activation extension points.

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|`events`| array | | ✔️ | |
|`events.type`| string | 64 characters | | |
|`events.actionId`| string | 64 characters | | The ID of an action defined in runtimes. |
|`events.options`| object | | | |

> |`events.options.sendMode`| string | | ✔️ | Actions to take during a mail send action. Supported values: `promptUser`, `softBlock`, `block`.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`events.options.sendMode`| string | | ✔️ | Actions to take during a mail send action. Supported values: `promptUser`, `softBlock`, `block`. For details about these values and their meaning, see [Available send mode options](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/smart-alerts-onmessagesend-walkthrough?tabs=jsonmanifest#available-send-mode-options).|
```

> ### extensions.prefer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### extensions.alternates
```

> Provides the ability to prefer or hide particular in-market Add-ins for the purposes of de-duping titles and backwards compatibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Provides the ability to prefer or hide particular in-market add-ins when you have published multiple add-ins with overlapping functionality.
```

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> |`prefer`| object | | | Specifies backwards compatibility with an equivalent COM add-in, XLL, or both.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`alternates.prefer`| object | | | Specifies backwards compatibility with an equivalent COM add-in, XLL, or both.|
```

> |`prefer.comAddin`| object | | | |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`alternates.prefer.comAddin`| object | | | Specifies a COM add-in that should be used in place of the Office Web Add-in when the OS is Windows.|
```

> |`tabs.groups.controls.items.supertip`| | |✔️| Configures a supertip for the custom item.|

Author: @Rick-Kirkham what's a good one-line summary of "supertip"? Is there a doc I could link to for more info?

Reviewer 2: @erikadoyle supertip: A brief, possibly multi-line, box of help information about a control in a UI that becomes visible when the cursor hovers over the control.

Author: Thanks! Added that.

> |`prefer.comAddin.progId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Identifies the application type in which the extension can run.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`alternates.prefer.comAddin.progId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Identifies the application type in which the extension can run.|
```

> |`hide`| object | | | |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`alternates.hide`| object | | | Configures how to hide another add-in that you have published whenever this add-in is installed, so users don't see both in the Office UI. For example, use this when you have previously published an add-in that uses the old XML manifest and you are replacing it with a version that uses the new JSON manifest. For more information and a concrete example, see [Manage both a unified manifest and an XML manifest version of your Office Add-in](/office/dev/add-ins/concepts/duplicate-legacy-metaos-add-ins).|
```

> |`hide.storeOfficeAddin`| object | | | Specifies an Office Add-in available in the Microsoft store.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`alternates.hide.storeOfficeAddin`| object | | | Specifies an Office Add-in available in AppSource.|
```

> |`hide.storeOfficeAddin.officeAddinId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ |Solution ID of an in-market add-in to hide.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`alternates.hide.storeOfficeAddin.officeAddinId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ |ID of an in-market add-in to hide. This is GUID from the manifest's "id" property, if the in-market add-in uses the JSON manifest, or from the `<Id>` element, if the in-market add-in uses the XML manifest.|
```

> |`hide.storeOfficeAddin.assetId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Asset ID of the in-market add-in to hide.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`alternates.hide.storeOfficeAddin.assetId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | The AppSource asset ID of the in-market add-in to hide.|
```

> |`hide.customOfficeAddin`| | | | |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`alternates.hide.customOfficeAddin`| | | | Configures hiding an in-market add-in that is not distributed through AppSource.|
```

> |`hide.customOfficeAddin.officeAddinId`|string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Solution ID of the in-market add-in to hide.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`alternates.hide.customOfficeAddin.officeAddinId`|string | 64 characters | ✔️ | ID of the in-market add-in to hide. This is GUID from the manifest's "id" property, if the in-market add-in uses the JSON manifest, or from the `<Id>` element, if the in-market add-in uses the XML manifest.|
```

> |`alternates.prefer`| object | | | Specifies backwards compatibility with an equivalent COM add-in, XLL, or both.|
> |`alternates.prefer.comAddin`| object | | | Specifies a COM add-in that should be used in place of the Office Web Add-in when the OS is Windows.|
> |`alternates.prefer.comAddin.progId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Identifies the application type in which the extension can run.|
> |`alternates.hide`| object | | | Configures how to hide another add-in that you have published whenever this add-in is installed, so users don't see both in the Office UI. For example, use this when you have previously published an add-in that uses the old XML manifest and you are replacing it with a version that uses the new JSON manifest. For more information and a concrete example, see [Manage both a unified manifest and an XML manifest version of your Office Add-in](/office/dev/add-ins/concepts/duplicate-legacy-metaos-add-ins).|
> |`alternates.hide.storeOfficeAddin`| object | | | Specifies an Office Add-in available in Microsoft AppSource.|
> |`alternates.hide.storeOfficeAddin.officeAddinId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ |ID of an in-market add-in to hide. This GUID is from the manifest `id` property, if the in-market add-in uses the JSON manifest, or from the `<Id>` element, if the in-market add-in uses the XML manifest.|
> |`alternates.hide.storeOfficeAddin.assetId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | The AppSource asset ID of the in-market add-in to hide.|
> |`alternates.hide.customOfficeAddin`| | | | Configures hiding an in-market add-in that is not distributed through AppSource.|
> |`alternates.hide.customOfficeAddin.officeAddinId`|string | 64 characters | ✔️ | ID of the in-market add-in to hide. This GUID is from the manifest `id` property, if the in-market add-in uses the JSON manifest, or from the `<Id>` element, if the in-market add-in uses the XML manifest.|

Reviewer 2: My bad. I should not have added "alternates" to these. 

```suggestion
|`prefer`| object | | | Specifies backwards compatibility with an equivalent COM add-in, XLL, or both.|
|`prefer.comAddin`| object | | | Specifies a COM add-in that should be used in place of the Office Web Add-in when the OS is Windows.|
|`prefer.comAddin.progId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Identifies the application type in which the extension can run.|
|`hide`| object | | | Configures how to hide another add-in that you have published whenever this add-in is installed, so users don't see both in the Office UI. For example, use this when you have previously published an add-in that uses the old XML manifest and you are replacing it with a version that uses the new JSON manifest. For more information and a concrete example, see [Manage both a unified manifest and an XML manifest version of your Office Add-in](/office/dev/add-ins/concepts/duplicate-legacy-metaos-add-ins).|
|`hide.storeOfficeAddin`| object | | | Specifies an Office Add-in available in Microsoft AppSource.|
|`hide.storeOfficeAddin.officeAddinId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ |ID of an in-market add-in to hide. This GUID is from the manifest `id` property, if the in-market add-in uses the JSON manifest, or from the `<Id>` element, if the in-market add-in uses the XML manifest.|
|`hide.storeOfficeAddin.assetId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | The AppSource asset ID of the in-market add-in to hide.|
|`hide.customOfficeAddin`| | | | Configures hiding an in-market add-in that is not distributed through AppSource.|
|`hide.customOfficeAddin.officeAddinId`|string | 64 characters | ✔️ | ID of the in-market add-in to hide. This GUID is from the manifest `id` property, if the in-market add-in uses the JSON manifest, or from the `<Id>` element, if the in-market add-in uses the XML manifest.|
```

|`actions.pinnable`| boolean | | | Specifies that a task pane supports pinning, which keeps the task pane open when the user changes the selection. Defaults to `false`.|
|`actions.view`| string | 64 characters | | Used only when `actions.type` is `openPage`. A description of the page that opens in the view; for example, "home page".|

### extensions.ribbons

Provides the ability to add buttons and menu items, collectively called "[add-in commands](/office/dev/add-ins/design/add-in-commands)", to the Office application's ribbon. One ribbon definition is selected from the array based on the requirements, based on first-of order. For concrete examples of using `extensions.ribbons`, see [Create add-in commands](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/create-addin-commands-unified-manifest), especially [Configure the UI for the task pane command](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/create-addin-commands-unified-manifest#configure-the-ui-for-the-task-pane-command) and [Configure the UI for the function command](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/create-addin-commands-unified-manifest#configure-the-ui-for-the-function-command).

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> |`type`| object | | | |

Reviewer: This property is common in all other manifest property and it is not required to add here.

Author: Removed

|`contexts`| array | 4 | | Specifies the Office application windows in which the ribbon customization is available to the user. Each item in the array is a member of a string array. Possible values are: `mailRead`, `mailCompose`, `meetingDetailsOrganizer`, `meetingDetailsAttendee`|
|`tabs`| array | |✔️| Configures custom tabs on the Office application ribbon. |
|`tabs.id`| string | 64 characters | | Unique identifier for this tab within the app.|

> |`tabs.label`| string | 64 characters | | Displayed text for the tab.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`tabs.label`| string | 64 characters | | Text displayed for the tab.|
```

|`tabs.position`| object | | | Configures the position of the custom tab relative to other tabs on the ribbon.|
|`tabs.position.builtinTabId`| string | 64 characters | | The ID of the built-in tab. See [Find the IDs of controls and control groups](/office/dev/add-ins/design/built-in-button-integration#find-the-ids-of-controls-and-control-groups).|
|`tabs.position.align`| string enum | | |  Defines alignment of this custom tab relative to the specified built-in tab. Supported values: `after`, `before`|
|`tabs.groups`| string |64 characters | | Defines tab groups.|
|`tabs.groups.id`| string |64 characters | | Unique identifier for this tab group within the app. Must be different from any built-in group id in the Office application and any other custom group.|

> |`tabs.groups.label`| string | 64 characters | | Displayed text for the group.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`tabs.groups.label`| string | 64 characters | | Text displayed for the group. |
```

> |`tabs.groups.icons`| array | | | Displayed icons for the group. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`tabs.groups.icons`| array | | | Icons displayed for the group. |
```

|`tabs.groups.icons.size`| number | |✔️| Size of the icon in pixels, enumerated as `16`,`20`,`24`,`32`,`40`,`48`,`64`,`80`. Three image sizes are required: 16, 32, 80. |
|`tabs.groups.icons.url`| URL| | | URL to the icon.|
|`tabs.groups.icons.file`| string | 2048 characters| | Relative path to the file that contains the icon. This property is currently not supported as a relative path.|
|`tabs.groups.controls`| array | | | Configures the buttons and menus in the group. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.id`| string | 64 characters| ✔️ | Unique identifier for this control within the app. Must be different from any built-in control id in the Office application and any other custom control.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.items`| object | | | Configures the items for a menu control. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.id`| string | | ✔️ | Unique identifier for this item within the app. |

> |`tabs.groups.controls.items.type`| string enum | | ✔️ | Supported values: `menuItem`. |

Reviewer: Description missing for this property, request you to please update.

> |`tabs.groups.controls.items.label`| string | 64 characters| ✔️ | Displayed text for the item. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.label`| string | 64 characters| ✔️ | Text displayed for the item. |
```

|`tabs.groups.controls.items.supertip.title`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Title text of the supertip.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.supertip.description`| string | 128 characters | ✔️ | Description of the supertip.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.actionId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Identifies the action that is taken when a user selects the control or menu item. The *actionId* must be an exact match for a `runtime.actions.id`. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.enabled`| boolean | | | Indicates whether the control is initially enabled. Default is `true`.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.overriddenByRibbonApi`| boolean | | | Specifies whether a group, button, menu, or menu item will be hidden on application and platform combinations that support the API ([Office.ribbon.requestCreateControls](/javascript/api/office/office.ribbon#office-office-ribbon-requestcreatecontrols-member(1))) that installs custom contextual tabs on the ribbon. Default is `false`.|

> |`tabs.groups.controls.type`| string | | ✔️ | Supported values: `button`, `menu`.|

Reviewer: Description missing for this property, request you to please update.

|`tabs.groups.controls.builtinControlId`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Id of the existing Office control. See [Find the IDs of controls and control groups](/office/dev/add-ins/design/built-in-button-integration#find-the-ids-of-controls-and-control-groups).|

> |`tabs.groups.controls.label`| string | 64 characters | ✔️ | Displayed text for the control.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`tabs.groups.controls.label`| String | 64 characters | ✔️ | Text displayed for the control.|
```

> |`tabs.groups.controls.icons`| array | | | |

Reviewer: Description missing for this property, request you to please update.

|`tabs.position.builtinTabId`| String | 64 characters | | Specifies the ID of the built-in tab. For more information, see [find the IDs of controls and control groups](/office/dev/add-ins/design/built-in-button-integration#find-the-ids-of-controls-and-control-groups).|
|`tabs.position.align`| String enum | | | Defines alignment of the custom tab relative to the specified built-in tab. Supported values: `after`, `before`|
|`tabs.groups`| String |64 characters | | Defines the tab groups.|
|`tabs.groups.id`| String |64 characters | | Specifies the ID for the tab group within the app. It must be different from any built-in group ID in the Microsoft 365 application and any other custom group.|
|`tabs.groups.label`| String | 64 characters | | Specifies the text displayed for the group. |
|`tabs.groups.icons`| Array | | | Specifies the icons displayed for the group. |
|`tabs.groups.icons.size`| Number | |✔️| Specifies the size of the icon in pixels, enumerated as `16`,`20`,`24`,`32`,`40`,`48`,`64`,`80`. Required image size: `16`, `32`, `80`. |
|`tabs.groups.icons.url`| URL| | | Specifies the URL of the icon.|

> |`tabs.groups.icons.file`| String | 2048 characters| | Specifies the relative path to the file that contains the icon. This property isn’t supported as a relative path. |

Reviewer 2: Update the `url` property to be "Specifies the absolute URL of the icon." 
Remove the `file` property entirely.

|`tabs.groups.controls`| Array | | | Configures the buttons and menus in the group. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.id`| String | 64 characters| ✔️ | Specifies the ID for the control within the app. It must be different from any built-in control ID in the Microsoft 365 application and any other custom control. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.items`| Object | | | Configures the items for a menu control. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.id`| String | | ✔️ | Specifies the ID for the items within the app. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.type`| String enum | | ✔️ | Defines the control items type. Supported value: `menuItem`. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.label`| String | 64 characters| ✔️ | Specifies the text displayed for the items. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.icons`| Array | | | Configures the icons for the custom item.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.icons.size`| Number | |✔️| Specifies the size of the icon in pixels, enumerated as `16`,`20`,`24`,`32`,`40`,`48`,`64`,`80`. Required image size: `16`, `32`, `80`. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.items.icons.url`| URL| | | Specifies the URL of the icon.|

> |`tabs.groups.controls.items.icons.file`| String | 2048 characters| | Specifies the relative path to the file that contains the icon. This property isn’t supported as a relative path. |

Reviewer 2: Update the `url` property to be "Specifies the absolute URL of the icon." 
Remove the `file` property entirely.

|`tabs.groups.controls.type`| String | | ✔️ | Defines the control type. Supported values: `button`, `menu`.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.builtinControlId`| String | 64 characters | ✔️ | Specifies the ID of the existing Microsoft 365 control. For more information, see [find the IDs of controls and control groups](/office/dev/add-ins/design/built-in-button-integration#find-the-ids-of-controls-and-control-groups).|
|`tabs.groups.controls.label`| String | 64 characters | ✔️ | Specifies the text displayed for the control.|
|`tabs.groups.controls.icons`| Array | | | Defines the icon(s) for the control. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.icons.size`| Number | | ✔️ | Specifies the size of the icon in pixels, enumerated as `16`,`20`,`24`,`32`,`40`,`48`,`64`,`80`. Required image size: `16`, `32`, `80`. |
|`tabs.groups.controls.icons.url`| URL| | | Specifies the URL to the icon.|

> |`tabs.groups.controls.icons.file`| String | 2048 characters| | Specifies the relative path to the file that contains the icon. This property isn’t supported as a relative path. |

Reviewer 2: Update the `url` property to be "Specifies the absolute URL of the icon." 
Remove the `file` property entirely.
